## PandaEditor is an open-source 3D level and scene editor designed for games, simulations and scientific projects. It is powered by Panda3D game engine and offers support for scripting in both Python and C++.

## TableOfContents
1. [Prerequisites and Configuration]()
2. [HelloWorld Tutorial]()

<h2 align="center">Prerequisites and Configuration</h2>

### Prerequisites
- Git
- CMake (Version 3.14 or higher)
- Panda3D SDK with development libraries
- C++ Compiler
   - Windows: Microsoft Visual Studio (with MSVC)
   - Linux or macOS: GCC or Clang
- curl and unzip for downloading and extracting assets (available by default on most systems)
- Other dependencies are downloaded at runtime.

### Getting PandaEditor

1. Using Git
	```
	git clone <https://github.com/CodeCreatePlay/PandaEditor>
	```
2. Manual Download
   - Download the repository as a ZIP file.
   - Extract it to a location of your choice on your system.

<h2 align="center">HelloWorld tutorial</h2>

PandaEditor uses a project-based workflow managed by its build system, which also handles most of the setup and initialization for you, including,

- Downloading dependencies.
- Projects management.
- Generating some boilerplate code to help you get started.

For now, everything is managed through its command-line interface.

### Creating a new project
1. Start the build.sh script.
2. When prompted, enter the project name or index number.
3. If the specified project does not exist, you will have the option to create it or choose another.

The system will then search for the project in two directories:
- `game` → Stores user-created projects.
- `demos` → Contains built-in demo projects.

Each folder inside `game` or `demos` represents a separate project, and source files from only the selected project are included in the build.

### Project structure

Here is an example of how the project strcuture should look like.

```
src/
├── game/                     # Main directory for user-defined projects
│   ├── UserProject           # Example user project
│   ├── AnotherProject        # Another example user project
│   └── YetAnotherProject     # Additional example user project
│
├── demos/                    # Directory for demo projects
│   └── roaming-ralph         # Demo project: Roaming Ralph
│
├── builds/                   # Directory for build output
│   ├── UserProject           # Build output for UserProject
│   ├── AnotherProject        # Build output for AnotherProject
│   ├── YetAnotherProject     # Build output for YetAnotherProject
│   └── roaming-ralph         # Build output for Roaming Ralph demo
```

### Boilerplate code explaination
1. When you create a new project, some boilerplate code is automatically generated and added inside `main.cpp` file.  
2. PandaEditor uses the Demon singleton class to set up and initialize the Panda3D game engine and editor environment. To start the editor, you need to:
   - Get a reference to Demon.
   - Call its start() method. 

- **Basic example.**

```
#include "demon.h"

int main(int argc, char* argv[]) {

    // Create an instance of the Demon class
    Demon &demon = Demon::get_instance();

    /*your code goes here...*/

    // Initialize and start the PandaEditor
    demon.start();

    // Exit the program
    return 0;  
}

```

- **Example code with `class`.**

```
#include "demon.h"

class MyApp {
public:
    MyApp() : demon( Demon::get_instance() )
    { 
        // your code goes here...
    }
	
    void start()
    {
	demon.start();
    }


    Demon &demon;
};

int main(int argc, char* argv[])
{
    MyApp app;
    app.start();
    return 0;
}

```

### Common Issues
- **Panda3D Library Not Found**
  - Ensure cmake.config contains the correct paths.
  - Verify that Panda3D is installed correctly.
- **Unsupported Compiler** 
    - Ensure you're using a supported compiler MSVC on Windows
    - GCC or Clang otherwise.
- **Panda3D installiation not found**
	- Ensure that cmake.config exists (it should be automatically generated by the build system) and that PANDA3D_ROOT is correctly set to the root directory of your Panda3D installation. See the example below.

		```
		# Path to the root installation of Panda3D
		set(PANDA3D_ROOT "C:/Panda3D-1.10.15-x64" CACHE STRING "Path to the Panda3D installation")
		
		# Include and library directories
		set(PANDA3D_INCLUDE_DIR "${PANDA3D_ROOT}/include")
		set(PANDA3D_LIBRARY_DIR "${PANDA3D_ROOT}/lib")
		```
                                                                                                     